README.md, before:

Follow me [Twitter](https://twitter.com/GianniDalerta)
Visit Me [GianniDalerta.com](https://giannidalerta.com)

# Awesome-NFT [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)
A curated list of awesome Non Fungible Token (NFT, ERC721, ERC1155) frameworks, libraries and software.

Table of contents
=================

<!--ts-->
* [Project Spotlight](#Project-Spotlight)
* [Blockchains](#blockchains)
  * [Ethereum](#ethereum)
  * [Matic - Polygon](#matic---polygon)
  * [Flow Blockchain](#flow-blockchain)
* [NFT Commmunity](#nft-commmunity)
  * [DAOs](#daos)
  * [Discord](#discord)
  * [NFT Enabled Communities](#nft-enabled-communities)
  * [Twitter List](#twitter-list)
* [Hackathons](#hackathons)
  * [2021 Eth Global NFT Hack](#2021-eth-global-nft-hack-full-showcase)
* [Publications](#publications)
  * [Newsletters](#newsletters)
  * [Gaming](#gaming)
  * [NFT Articles](#nft-articles)
  * [Articles Misc](#articles-misc)
* [Audio](#audio)
  * [NFT Podcasts](#nft-podcasts)
  * [Podcast Episodes](#podcast-episodes)

* [Framework, blockchain orchestration, testing, and command line interface](#resources-frameworks-blockchain-orchestration-testing-and-command-line-interface)
* [NFT Games](#nft-games)
* [NFT Platforms](#nft-platforms)
* [NFT Art](#nft-art)
* [NFT IRL](#nft-irl)
* [NFT Music](#nft-music)
* [NFT DeFi](#nft-defi)
* [NFT Explorers](#nft-explorers)
* [NFT Fundraising](#nft-fundraising)
* [NFT Collectables](#nft-collectables)
* [NFT Business](#nft-business)
* [NFT Badges](#nft-badges)
* [NFT Marketplaces](#nft-marketplaces)
* [NFT Showcases](#nft-showcases)
* [NFT Philanthropy](#nft-philanthropy)
* [Marketplaces](#marketplaces)
* [Generators](#generators)
  * [NFT Minters](#nft-minters)
* [Composables](#composables)
* [NFT Wallets](#nft-wallets)
* [NFT Carbon Footprint](#nft-carbon-footprint)
<!--te-->

## **Project Spotlight**
 - [Eulerbeats](https://eulerbeats.com)
 - [Nifty Ink](https://nifty.ink/)
 - [Scaffold-eth (everything you need for DApp & NFT development)](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth)
 - [Authenticated Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT) Index](https://nftndx.io/)

## **Distributed Ledgers**

### **Ethereum**

- [ERC-721: Non-fungible Token Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721)
- [ERC-721x: Extends ERC721 and adds support for multi-fungible tokens and batch transfers, fully backward-compatible](https://github.com/loomnetwork/erc721x)
- [EIP-998: Composable Non-Fungible Token Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-998)
- [EIP-998:WIP (Work-In-Progress) Composable Non-Fungible Token Standard](https://github.com/mattlockyer/composables-998)
- [EIP-1155: Crypto Items Token Standard](https://github.com/ethereum/eips/issues/1155)

### **Matic - Polygon**

- [Matic/Polygon](https://polygon.technology/)

### **Flow Blockchain**

- [FLOW Blockchain](https://www.onflow.org/) check out the [Awesome List](https://github.com/gianni-dalerta/awesome-flow)
### **Polkadot/Kusama**

- [RMRK](https://github.com/rmrk-team/rmrk-spec)

### **Hedera Token Service**

- [HTS](https://hedera.com/token-service)

## NFT Tutorials

- [Cryptozombies Tutorial](https://cryptozombies.io/en/lesson/5)
- [NFT Tutorial Article](https://medium.com/pinata/how-to-build-erc-721-nfts-with-ipfs-e76a21d8f914)
- Coding an [ERC-721 collectible](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YPbgjPPC1d0).
- [How to mint on KodaDot NFT](https://nft.kodadot.xyz/rmrk/collection/10D77F8B699437BB50-KODA)
- [How to mint on KodaDot NFT explorer](https://stakenode.medium.com/dont-panic-and-mint-your-nft-s-on-kodadot-kusama-polkadot-first-nft-explorer-4273f789e585)
- [Hedera Token Service Demo: Token configuration, issuance, and transfer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aEFm4bdnsBI)

## **NFT Commmunity**

### **Discord**

- [CryptoDevs](https://discord.gg/EDA6M3R)
- [NonFungible.Com](https://discord.gg/3WQ5sT4Dpj)

### **NFT Enabled Communities**

- [VeeFriends](https://www.veefriends.com/)

### **Twitter List**

- [Gianni's NFT Twitter List](https://twitter.com/GianniDalerta/lists/nft)
- [Rarible](https://twitter.com/rariblecom?lang=en)
- [NFT Protocol](https://twitter.com/nft_protocol?lang=en)

### 2021 Eth Global NFT Hack [Full Showcase](https://hack.ethglobal.co/nfthack/showcase)
- [MysteryDrop](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/mysterydrop-recnAaH5hHt2oH656) - Details on [Medium](https://ipatka.medium.com/nft-box-breaks-how-to-use-the-unique-properties-of-ipfs-content-addressing-to-sell-nfts-before-365b5b1f1ed0) by project lead [Isaac Patka](https://twitter.com/isaacpatka)
- [hashink](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/hashink-rechIlWuMbBysOmOJ)
- [SuperRenting](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/superrenting-nft-recGACrXfeSonVIuY)
- [Crypto Corgis](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/crypto-corgis-recGugZ7pMkpEO4zS)
- [DeFacto](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/defacto-recAPU6X12OplTTmJ)
- [Animal Money](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/animal-money-recUnSfy2ytENt32q)
- [Genesis](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/genesis-recCJSTINRc1TDy54)
- [BurstNFT](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/burst-nft-recIALHiB7gXWsaAE)
- [Pooch](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/pooch-recWdMBcvH8LsMZvR)
- [Cashcow](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/cashcow-%F0%9F%90%AE-recLo6lxmlKAKKGX0)
- [NFT Gallery](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/nft-gallery-rec0ZuNfFrJAIaTcL)
- [NFTY DM](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/nifty-dm-recx1Lf0ybi6fAQJp)
- [Hashchain](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/hashchain-recIkfZwbN7FfYSTs)



### **Associations**

- [The Non-Fungible Alliance](https://nonfungiblealliance.org/)

## **Publications**

### **Newsletters**

- [NFTY News](https://medium.com/nfty-news) by [Brian Flynn](https://medium.com/@brianubiquik)

### **News**

- [The Crypto Collectors](https://thecryptocollectors.com/)
- [Cointelegraph's NFT Week magazine](https://cointelegraph.com/magazine/nft-week)
- [Dappradar's NFT blog](https://dappradar.com/blog/tag/nfts)

### **Gaming**

- [Blockchain Gamer](https://www.blockchaingamer.biz/)
- [Crypto Bit Games](https://twitter.com/cryptobitgames?lang=en)

### **NFT Articles**

- [Crypto Stories: A Primer on Non-Fungible Tokens](https://www.spreaker.com/user/10197011/amitt-mahajan-tony-sheng) from [Venture Stories](https://www.spreaker.com/show/venture-stories)
- [A New Media Structure: The Ownership Economy](https://darkstar.mirror.xyz/srmoGiN_1pg_toQGzCupkjWFOaf8xi0mM60zYpn_pwI) by Jarrod Dicker
- [A beginner’s guide to NFTs](https://linda.mirror.xyz/df649d61efb92c910464a4e74ae213c4cab150b9cbcc4b7fb6090fc77881a95d) by Linda Xie
- [Understanding Blockchain-powered Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs)](https://chuta.medium.com/understanding-blockchain-powered-non-fungible-tokens-nfts-cef88850a133) by [Chimezie Chuta](https://chuta.medium.com)
- [Re-Fungible Token (RFT)](https://medium.com/@billyrennekamp/re-fungible-token-rft-297003592769) by [Billy Rennekamp](https://medium.com/@billyrennekamp)
- [The Playful Paradigm Shift](https://blog.coinbase.com/the-playful-paradigm-shift-4bf35d9d1d11) by [Jacob Horne](https://blog.coinbase.com/@jacobscott)
- [Top-Down and Bottom-Up Composables, What’s the Difference and Which One Should You Use?](https://hackernoon.com/top-down-and-bottom-up-composables-whats-the-difference-and-which-one-should-you-use-db939f6acf1d) by [Nick Mudge](https://hackernoon.com/@mudgen)
- [Crafting New Value with Existing Tokens](https://medium.com/@brianubiquik/crafting-new-value-with-existing-tokens-de95fe838fea) by [Brian Flynn](https://medium.com/@brianubiquik)
- [ERC721x — A Smarter Token for the Future of Crypto Collectibles](https://medium.com/loom-network/erc721x-a-smarter-token-for-the-future-of-crypto-collectibles-335ba5f706d1) by [Luke Zhang](https://medium.com/@lukezhang) at [Loom Networks](https://loomx.io/)
- [The Future of Virtual Assets: Introducing the Fractional NFT](https://hackernoon.com/the-future-of-virtual-assets-introducing-the-fractional-nft-84c218da73c9) by [Marc Howard](https://medium.com/@marcbegins) and [Gauthier Zuppinger](https://medium.com/@gauthier_97697)
- [Tokenization of Real Estate](http://sinahab.com/real-estate-tokenization/) by [Sina Habibian](http://sinahab.com/author/sina/)
- [What is a non-fungible token (NFT)?](https://hedera.com/learning/what-is-a-non-fungible-token-nft)
- [Rare Sneaker App Switches From Ethereum to Hedera to Skip Blockchain Fees](https://www.coindesk.com/suku-sneaker-app-switches-from-ethereum-to-hedera-hashgraph)
- [Building an NFT Auction on Hedera Hashgraph](https://hedera.com/blog/building-nft-auction-on-hedera)

### **NFT Podcasts**

### **Podcast Episodes**

- [Lets Talk Bitcoin | E86 - Virtual Worlds, Real Money](https://letstalkbitcoin.com/e86-virtual-worlds-real-money)
- [Digitally Rare](https://twitter.com/digitallyrare)

## Resources, frameworks, blockchain orchestration, testing, and command line interface.
- [Scafold-Eth](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth)
- [Rarepress](https://rarepress.org/)
- [Clevis](https://github.com/austintgriffith/clevis)
- [0xcert Framework](https://github.com/0xcert/framework/)
- [NFTE](https://nfte.app/)
- [Check My NFT](https://checkmynft.com/)
- [minty 🌿](https://github.com/yusefnapora/minty) - how to mint and store on IPFS
- [useNft()](https://github.com/spectrexyz/use-nft) - 🍮 React hook to fetch metadata from any NFT.
- [NFT Multisender](https://nft.multisender.app/)

## **NFT Games**

- [00xuniverse](https://0xuniverse.com/)
- [Aavegotchi](https://aavegotchi.com/)
- [Axie Infinity](https://land.axieinfinity.com/?r=DappRadar&utm_source=DappRadar&utm_medium=deeplink&utm_campaign=visit-website)
- [Cometh](https://cometh.io/)
- [Crypto Assault](https://cryptoassault.io/)
- [CryptoFighters](https://cryptofighters.io/)
- [CryptoFights](https://cryptofights.io/)
- [Cryptogs](https://cryptogs.io/)
- [CryptoKitties](https://www.cryptokitties.co/)
- [CryptoRome](https://www.cryptorome.io/)
- [CryptoSaga](https://cryptosaga.io/)
- [Cryptovoxels](https://www.cryptovoxels.com/)
- [Decentraland](https://decentraland.org/)
- [Ember Sword](https://socouch.com/)
- [Ether Kingdoms](https://wax.io/)
- [Galleass](https://austingriffith.com/portfolio/galleass/)
- [Gizer](https://gizer.io/)
- [Gods Unchained](https://t.co/UmGG9FzqQB)
- [Hedgie](https://www.hedgie.io/)
- [HyperDragons](https://hyperdragons.alfakingdom.com/)
- [Mythereum](https://www.mythereum.io/)
- [Mooncats](https://mooncatrescue.com/?utm_source=DappRadar&utm_medium=deeplink&utm_campaign=visit-website)
- [My Crypto Heros](https://www.mycryptoheroes.net/)
- [Neon District](https://neondistrict.io/)
- [NBA Top Shot](https://www.nbatopshot.com/?utm_source=DappRadar&utm_medium=deeplink&utm_campaign=visit-website) (Hot)
- [SkyWeaver](https://skyweaver.net/)
- [WarCrypto](https://warofcrypto.io/)
- [War Riders](https://warriders.com/)
- [World of Ether](https://worldofether.com/)
- [WORLDWIDE WEB3](https://www.crypto-weebs.com/)

## **NFT Platforms**

- [Enjin Coin](https://enjincoin.io/)
- [Horizon Games](https://horizongames.net/)
- [Hoard](https://www.hoard.exchange/)

## **NFT Art**

- [CryptoPunk](https://dappradar.com/ethereum/collectibles/cryptopunks) (The Very First NFT)
- [Nifty.ink](https://nifty.ink/) check out my work [My Nifties](https://nifty.ink/artist/0x468ec2cc27b8d5a19e6a81bc2f8deb62430f846b)
- [SuperRare](https://superrare.co/)
- [Portion](https://portion.io/)
- [CryptoArte](https://www.cryptoarte.io/)
- [CryptoCanvas](https://rinkeby.cryptocanvas.art/)
- [Dada NYC](https://dada.nyc/)
- [DigitalArtChain](http://digitalartchain.com/)
- [John Orion Young](https://www.johnorionyoung.com/)
- [Digital Objects](https://digitalobjects.art/) by [Ryan Duffy](https://twitter.com/vidmeduffy)
- [WeeeArt](https://art.weee.network/) by [David Sun](https://medium.com/@davidsun_93561)
- [KwownOrigin](https://knownorigin.io/)
- [Codex](https://codexprotocol.com/)
- [Hashmasks](https://www.thehashmasks.com/)
- [EtherPalace](https://pachunka.github.io/EtherPalace/palace.html)
- [EthBlockArt](https://ethblock.art/)
- [BASTARD GAN PUNKS](https://bastardganpunks.club/)

## **NFT IRL**
- [Bright Moments Gallery & DAO](https://brightmoments.io/)
- [Black Dove](https://www.blackdove.com/)

## **NFT Music**

- [EulerBeats](https://eulerbeats.com/)
- [HashMelody](https://hashmelody.com)
- [Songcamp - music + the new internet](https://songcamp.mirror.xyz/)
- [XLR8R](https://xlr8r.com)
- [BrokenJazz](https://brokenjazz.cc)


## **NFT Defi**

- [Aavegotchi](https://aavegotchi.com/)
- [Charged Particles](https://app.charged.fi/go/leptons) by [robsecord.eth](https://twitter.com/robsecord)
- [NFTX](https://nftx.org/)
- [NFT20](https://nft20.io/)
- [NFTfi](https://nftfi.com/)
- [NFY](https://nfy.finance/)
- [NIFTEX](https://www.niftex.org/)
- [Unifty](https://unifty.io/)
- [Node Runners](https://wiki.metagame.wtf/docs/great-houses/house-of-daos)


## **NFT Explorers**

- [NFTNDX.IO](https://nftndx.io)

## **NFT Fundraising**

- [Gittron](https://gittron.me/)

## **NFT Collectables**

- [CryptoCorals](https://cryptocorals.co/)
- [CryptoKitties](https://www.cryptokitties.co/)
- [CryptoCrystal](https://cryptocrystal.io/)
- [CryptoPunks](https://www.larvalabs.com/cryptopunks)
- [Hedgie](https://www.hedgie.io/)
- [ECOMI](https://www.ecomi.com/)
- [Kudos](https://gitcoin.co/kudos/) by [Gitcoin](https://gitcoin.co/)
- [MLB Crypto Baseball](https://mlbcryptobaseball.com/)
- [CryptoStrikers](https://www.cryptostrikers.com/)
- [EtherTulips](https://ethertulips.com/)
- [NBA Top Shot](https://nbatopshot.com/)
- [Bullionix](https://bullionix.io/)
- [Aavegotchi](https://aavegotchi.com/)

## **NFT Business**

- [Artcryption](https://artcryption.com/)
- [Centrifuge](http://www.centrifuge.io/)
- [ENS Nifty](https://ensnifty.com/)

## **NFT Badges**

- [CHIEVMINT](https://chiev.net/) by the [Raid Guild](https://raidguild.org/)

## **NFT Marketplaces**

- [Async.art](https://async.art/)
- [Cargo](https://cargo.build/)
- [CryptoSlam.io](https://www.cryptoslam.io/)
- [GhostMarket](https://ghostmarket.io/)
- [KodaDot](https://nft.kodadot.xyz)
- [MakersPlace](https://makersplace.com/)
- [Mintable](https://mintable.app/)
- [Nifty Gateway](https://niftygateway.com/#/home)
- [NiftyKit](https://niftykit.com/)
- [OpenSea.io](https://opensea.io/)
- [Portion](http://portion.io/)
- [Rarible](https://rarible.com/)
- [SuperRare](https://superrare.co/)
- [Wax](https://wax.io/)
- [Unifty](https://unifty.io/)
- [Unique.One](https://www.unique.one/)

## **NFT Showcases**
- [Cyber](https://oncyber.io/)
- [Showtime](https://tryshowtime.com/)

## **NFT Philanthropy**

- [CryptoCorals](https://cryptocorals.co/)
- [Project Ark (WWF)](https://project-ark.co)

## **Discovery**

- [NonFungible](https://nonfungible.com/)

## **Generators**

### **NFT Minters**

- [CocoNFT](https://coconft.com/)
- [ethmoji](https://ethmoji.io/)
- [NiftyKit](https://niftykit.com/)
- [KodaDot](https://nft.kodadot.xyz)
- [OpenSea.io](https://opensea.io/)
- [Ownerfy](https://shop.ownerfy.com/)
- [Rarible](https://rarible.com/)
- [Unifty](https://unifty.io/)
- [Valuables by Cent](https://v.cent.co/)


## **Composables**

- [Mokens](https://mokens.io/)
- [Mintable](https://mintable.app/)
- [CryptoRome](https://www.cryptorome.io/)

## **NFT Wallets**

- [Blockto](https://blocto.portto.io/)
- [Enjin Wallet](https://enjinwallet.io/)
- [Lumi Wallet](https://lumiwallet.com/)
- [Trust Wallet](https://trustwalletapp.com/)
- [DexWallet](https://www.dexwallet.io/)
- [CoinBase Wallet](https://wallet.coinbase.com/)

## **NFT Carbon Footprint**



The NFT Carbon footprint is subject to a lot of debates and depends on the blockchain technology used, especially its consensus mechanism: Proof of Work, Proof of Stake, Proof of Elapsed Time...
One should know that the Proof of Work (PoW) requires an important amount of energy as it is a computational competition. This amount is considerably higher than other consensus mechanisms but it is still hard to have a precise estimation of the consumed energy.

- [Estimate the total CO2 footprint for popular CryptoArt platforms](https://github.com/kylemcdonald/cryptoart-footprint)
- [Carbon.fyi by Offsetra](https://carbon.fyi/)

Commit message:

Tezos, Polkadot, RMRK, some fixes
Added some new links, fixed some missing anchors

README.md, after:

Follow me [Twitter](https://twitter.com/GianniDalerta)
Visit Me [GianniDalerta.com](https://giannidalerta.com)

# Awesome-NFT [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)
A curated list of awesome Non Fungible Token (NFT, ERC721, ERC1155) frameworks, libraries and software.

Table of contents
=================

<!--ts-->
* [Project Spotlight](#Project-Spotlight)
* [Blockchains](#blockchains)
  * [Ethereum](#ethereum)
  * [Matic - Polygon](#matic---polygon)
  * [Flow Blockchain](#flow-blockchain)
  * [Polkadot and Kusama](#polkadot-and-kusama)
  * [Hedera Token Service](#hedera-token-service)
  * [Tezos](#tezos)
* [NFT Commmunity](#nft-commmunity)
  * [DAOs](#daos)
  * [Discord](#discord)
  * [NFT Enabled Communities](#nft-enabled-communities)
  * [Twitter List](#twitter-list)
* [Hackathons](#hackathons)
  * [2021 Eth Global NFT Hack](#2021-eth-global-nft-hack-full-showcase)
* [Publications](#publications)
  * [Newsletters](#newsletters)
  * [Gaming](#gaming)
  * [NFT Articles](#nft-articles)
  * [Articles Misc](#articles-misc)
* [Audio](#audio)
  * [NFT Podcasts](#nft-podcasts)
  * [Podcast Episodes](#podcast-episodes)

* [Framework, blockchain orchestration, testing, and command line interface](#resources-frameworks-blockchain-orchestration-testing-and-command-line-interface)
* [NFT Games](#nft-games)
* [NFT Platforms](#nft-platforms)
* [NFT Art](#nft-art)
* [NFT IRL](#nft-irl)
* [NFT Music](#nft-music)
* [NFT DeFi](#nft-defi)
* [NFT Explorers](#nft-explorers)
* [NFT Fundraising](#nft-fundraising)
* [NFT Collectables](#nft-collectables)
* [NFT Business](#nft-business)
* [NFT Badges](#nft-badges)
* [NFT Marketplaces](#nft-marketplaces)
* [NFT Showcases](#nft-showcases)
* [NFT Philanthropy](#nft-philanthropy)
* [Marketplaces](#marketplaces)
* [Generators](#generators)
  * [NFT Minters](#nft-minters)
* [Composables](#composables)
* [NFT Wallets](#nft-wallets)
* [NFT Carbon Footprint](#nft-carbon-footprint)
<!--te-->

## **Project Spotlight**
 - [Eulerbeats](https://eulerbeats.com)
 - [Nifty Ink](https://nifty.ink/)
 - [Scaffold-eth (everything you need for DApp & NFT development)](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth)
 - [Authenticated Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT) Index](https://nftndx.io/)

## **Distributed Ledgers**

### **Ethereum**

- [ERC-721: Non-fungible Token Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721)
- [ERC-721x: Extends ERC721 and adds support for multi-fungible tokens and batch transfers, fully backward-compatible](https://github.com/loomnetwork/erc721x)
- [EIP-998: Composable Non-Fungible Token Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-998)
- [EIP-998:WIP (Work-In-Progress) Composable Non-Fungible Token Standard](https://github.com/mattlockyer/composables-998)
- [EIP-1155: Crypto Items Token Standard](https://github.com/ethereum/eips/issues/1155)

### **Matic - Polygon**

- [Matic/Polygon](https://polygon.technology/)

### **Flow Blockchain**

- [FLOW Blockchain](https://www.onflow.org/) check out the [Awesome List](https://github.com/gianni-dalerta/awesome-flow)
### **Polkadot and Kusama**

- [RMRK](https://github.com/rmrk-team/rmrk-spec) - standard set for nested, equippable, composable, multi-resource NFTs with on-chain emotes. [Video explainer](https://url.rmrk.app/rmrkccawe) / [writeup](https://url.rmrk.app/dawnawe).

### **Hedera Token Service**

- [HTS](https://hedera.com/token-service)

### **Tezos**

- See [NFT section of Awesome List](https://github.com/kevinelliott/awesome-tezos#tokens)

## NFT Tutorials

- [Cryptozombies Tutorial](https://cryptozombies.io/en/lesson/5)
- [NFT Tutorial Article](https://medium.com/pinata/how-to-build-erc-721-nfts-with-ipfs-e76a21d8f914)
- Coding an [ERC-721 collectible](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YPbgjPPC1d0).
- [How to mint on KodaDot NFT](https://nft.kodadot.xyz/rmrk/collection/10D77F8B699437BB50-KODA)
- [How to mint on KodaDot NFT explorer](https://stakenode.medium.com/dont-panic-and-mint-your-nft-s-on-kodadot-kusama-polkadot-first-nft-explorer-4273f789e585)
- [Hedera Token Service Demo: Token configuration, issuance, and transfer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aEFm4bdnsBI)

## **NFT Commmunity**

### **Discord**

- [CryptoDevs](https://discord.gg/EDA6M3R)
- [NonFungible.Com](https://discord.gg/3WQ5sT4Dpj)
- [Clean NFTs Discord](https://discord.gg/jCwm7A6ZJB)

### **NFT Enabled Communities**

- [VeeFriends](https://www.veefriends.com/)

### **Twitter List**

- [Gianni's NFT Twitter List](https://twitter.com/GianniDalerta/lists/nft)
- [Rarible](https://twitter.com/rariblecom?lang=en)
- [NFT Protocol](https://twitter.com/nft_protocol?lang=en)

### 2021 Eth Global NFT Hack [Full Showcase](https://hack.ethglobal.co/nfthack/showcase)
- [MysteryDrop](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/mysterydrop-recnAaH5hHt2oH656) - Details on [Medium](https://ipatka.medium.com/nft-box-breaks-how-to-use-the-unique-properties-of-ipfs-content-addressing-to-sell-nfts-before-365b5b1f1ed0) by project lead [Isaac Patka](https://twitter.com/isaacpatka)
- [hashink](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/hashink-rechIlWuMbBysOmOJ)
- [SuperRenting](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/superrenting-nft-recGACrXfeSonVIuY)
- [Crypto Corgis](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/crypto-corgis-recGugZ7pMkpEO4zS)
- [DeFacto](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/defacto-recAPU6X12OplTTmJ)
- [Animal Money](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/animal-money-recUnSfy2ytENt32q)
- [Genesis](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/genesis-recCJSTINRc1TDy54)
- [BurstNFT](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/burst-nft-recIALHiB7gXWsaAE)
- [Pooch](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/pooch-recWdMBcvH8LsMZvR)
- [Cashcow](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/cashcow-%F0%9F%90%AE-recLo6lxmlKAKKGX0)
- [NFT Gallery](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/nft-gallery-rec0ZuNfFrJAIaTcL)
- [NFTY DM](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/nifty-dm-recx1Lf0ybi6fAQJp)
- [Hashchain](https://hack.ethglobal.co/showcase/hashchain-recIkfZwbN7FfYSTs)



### **Associations**

- [The Non-Fungible Alliance](https://nonfungiblealliance.org/)

## **Publications**

### **Newsletters**

- [NFTY News](https://medium.com/nfty-news) by [Brian Flynn](https://medium.com/@brianubiquik)
- [NFT Review](https://news.nft.review) by [Bruno Škvorc](https://twitter.com/bitfalls)

### **News**

- [The Crypto Collectors](https://thecryptocollectors.com/)
- [Cointelegraph's NFT Week magazine](https://cointelegraph.com/magazine/nft-week)
- [Dappradar's NFT blog](https://dappradar.com/blog/tag/nfts)

### **Gaming**

- [Blockchain Gamer](https://www.blockchaingamer.biz/)
- [Crypto Bit Games](https://twitter.com/cryptobitgames?lang=en)

### **NFT Articles**

- [Crypto Stories: A Primer on Non-Fungible Tokens](https://www.spreaker.com/user/10197011/amitt-mahajan-tony-sheng) from [Venture Stories](https://www.spreaker.com/show/venture-stories)
- [A New Media Structure: The Ownership Economy](https://darkstar.mirror.xyz/srmoGiN_1pg_toQGzCupkjWFOaf8xi0mM60zYpn_pwI) by Jarrod Dicker
- [A beginner’s guide to NFTs](https://linda.mirror.xyz/df649d61efb92c910464a4e74ae213c4cab150b9cbcc4b7fb6090fc77881a95d) by Linda Xie
- [The last NFT explainer you'll ever need](https://bitfalls.com/nft) by [Bitfalls.com](https://bitfalls.com)
- [Understanding Blockchain-powered Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs)](https://chuta.medium.com/understanding-blockchain-powered-non-fungible-tokens-nfts-cef88850a133) by [Chimezie Chuta](https://chuta.medium.com)
- [Re-Fungible Token (RFT)](https://medium.com/@billyrennekamp/re-fungible-token-rft-297003592769) by [Billy Rennekamp](https://medium.com/@billyrennekamp)
- [The Playful Paradigm Shift](https://blog.coinbase.com/the-playful-paradigm-shift-4bf35d9d1d11) by [Jacob Horne](https://blog.coinbase.com/@jacobscott)
- [Top-Down and Bottom-Up Composables, What’s the Difference and Which One Should You Use?](https://hackernoon.com/top-down-and-bottom-up-composables-whats-the-difference-and-which-one-should-you-use-db939f6acf1d) by [Nick Mudge](https://hackernoon.com/@mudgen)
- [Crafting New Value with Existing Tokens](https://medium.com/@brianubiquik/crafting-new-value-with-existing-tokens-de95fe838fea) by [Brian Flynn](https://medium.com/@brianubiquik)
- [ERC721x — A Smarter Token for the Future of Crypto Collectibles](https://medium.com/loom-network/erc721x-a-smarter-token-for-the-future-of-crypto-collectibles-335ba5f706d1) by [Luke Zhang](https://medium.com/@lukezhang) at [Loom Networks](https://loomx.io/)
- [The Future of Virtual Assets: Introducing the Fractional NFT](https://hackernoon.com/the-future-of-virtual-assets-introducing-the-fractional-nft-84c218da73c9) by [Marc Howard](https://medium.com/@marcbegins) and [Gauthier Zuppinger](https://medium.com/@gauthier_97697)
- [Tokenization of Real Estate](http://sinahab.com/real-estate-tokenization/) by [Sina Habibian](http://sinahab.com/author/sina/)
- [What is a non-fungible token (NFT)?](https://hedera.com/learning/what-is-a-non-fungible-token-nft)
- [Rare Sneaker App Switches From Ethereum to Hedera to Skip Blockchain Fees](https://www.coindesk.com/suku-sneaker-app-switches-from-ethereum-to-hedera-hashgraph)
- [Building an NFT Auction on Hedera Hashgraph](https://hedera.com/blog/building-nft-auction-on-hedera)
- [Dawn of the Art Legos](https://url.rmrk.app/dawnawe) by [Bruno Škvorc](https://twitter.com/bitfalls)

### **NFT Podcasts**

### **Podcast Episodes**

- [Lets Talk Bitcoin | E86 - Virtual Worlds, Real Money](https://letstalkbitcoin.com/e86-virtual-worlds-real-money)
- [Digitally Rare](https://twitter.com/digitallyrare)

## Resources, frameworks, blockchain orchestration, testing, and command line interface.
- [Scafold-Eth](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth)
- [Rarepress](https://rarepress.org/)
- [Clevis](https://github.com/austintgriffith/clevis)
- [0xcert Framework](https://github.com/0xcert/framework/)
- [NFTE](https://nfte.app/)
- [Check My NFT](https://checkmynft.com/)
- [minty 🌿](https://github.com/yusefnapora/minty) - how to mint and store on IPFS
- [useNft()](https://github.com/spectrexyz/use-nft) - 🍮 React hook to fetch metadata from any NFT.
- [NFT Multisender](https://nft.multisender.app/)
- [RMRK tools](https://github.com/rmrk-team/rmrk-tools/)

## **NFT Games**

- [00xuniverse](https://0xuniverse.com/)
- [Aavegotchi](https://aavegotchi.com/)
- [Axie Infinity](https://land.axieinfinity.com/?r=DappRadar&utm_source=DappRadar&utm_medium=deeplink&utm_campaign=visit-website)
- [Cometh](https://cometh.io/)
- [Crypto Assault](https://cryptoassault.io/)
- [CryptoFighters](https://cryptofighters.io/)
- [CryptoFights](https://cryptofights.io/)
- [Cryptogs](https://cryptogs.io/)
- [CryptoKitties](https://www.cryptokitties.co/)
- [CryptoRome](https://www.cryptorome.io/)
- [CryptoSaga](https://cryptosaga.io/)
- [Cryptovoxels](https://www.cryptovoxels.com/)
- [Decentraland](https://decentraland.org/)
- [Ember Sword](https://socouch.com/)
- [Ether Kingdoms](https://wax.io/)
- [Galleass](https://austingriffith.com/portfolio/galleass/)
- [Gizer](https://gizer.io/)
- [Gods Unchained](https://t.co/UmGG9FzqQB)
- [Hedgie](https://www.hedgie.io/)
- [HyperDragons](https://hyperdragons.alfakingdom.com/)
- [Mythereum](https://www.mythereum.io/)
- [Mooncats](https://mooncatrescue.com/?utm_source=DappRadar&utm_medium=deeplink&utm_campaign=visit-website)
- [My Crypto Heros](https://www.mycryptoheroes.net/)
- [Neon District](https://neondistrict.io/)
- [NBA Top Shot](https://www.nbatopshot.com/?utm_source=DappRadar&utm_medium=deeplink&utm_campaign=visit-website) (Hot)
- [SkyWeaver](https://skyweaver.net/)
- [WarCrypto](https://warofcrypto.io/)
- [War Riders](https://warriders.com/)
- [World of Ether](https://worldofether.com/)
- [WORLDWIDE WEB3](https://www.crypto-weebs.com/)
- [Kanaria](https://kanaria.rmrk.app)

## **NFT Platforms**

- [Enjin Coin](https://enjincoin.io/)
- [Horizon Games](https://horizongames.net/)
- [Hoard](https://www.hoard.exchange/)
- [Singular by RMRK](https://singular.rmrk.app) 

## **NFT Art**

- [CryptoPunk](https://dappradar.com/ethereum/collectibles/cryptopunks) (The Very First NFT)
- [Nifty.ink](https://nifty.ink/) check out my work [My Nifties](https://nifty.ink/artist/0x468ec2cc27b8d5a19e6a81bc2f8deb62430f846b)
- [SuperRare](https://superrare.co/)
- [Portion](https://portion.io/)
- [CryptoArte](https://www.cryptoarte.io/)
- [CryptoCanvas](https://rinkeby.cryptocanvas.art/)
- [Dada NYC](https://dada.nyc/)
- [DigitalArtChain](http://digitalartchain.com/)
- [John Orion Young](https://www.johnorionyoung.com/)
- [Digital Objects](https://digitalobjects.art/) by [Ryan Duffy](https://twitter.com/vidmeduffy)
- [WeeeArt](https://art.weee.network/) by [David Sun](https://medium.com/@davidsun_93561)
- [KwownOrigin](https://knownorigin.io/)
- [Codex](https://codexprotocol.com/)
- [Hashmasks](https://www.thehashmasks.com/)
- [EtherPalace](https://pachunka.github.io/EtherPalace/palace.html)
- [EthBlockArt](https://ethblock.art/)
- [BASTARD GAN PUNKS](https://bastardganpunks.club/)
- [Singular](https://singular.rmrk.app)

## **NFT IRL**
- [Bright Moments Gallery & DAO](https://brightmoments.io/)
- [Black Dove](https://www.blackdove.com/)

## **NFT Music**

- [EulerBeats](https://eulerbeats.com/)
- [HashMelody](https://hashmelody.com)
- [Songcamp - music + the new internet](https://songcamp.mirror.xyz/)
- [XLR8R](https://xlr8r.com)
- [BrokenJazz](https://brokenjazz.cc)


## **NFT Defi**

- [Aavegotchi](https://aavegotchi.com/)
- [Charged Particles](https://app.charged.fi/go/leptons) by [robsecord.eth](https://twitter.com/robsecord)
- [NFTX](https://nftx.org/)
- [NFT20](https://nft20.io/)
- [NFTfi](https://nftfi.com/)
- [NFY](https://nfy.finance/)
- [NIFTEX](https://www.niftex.org/)
- [Unifty](https://unifty.io/)
- [Node Runners](https://wiki.metagame.wtf/docs/great-houses/house-of-daos)


## **NFT Explorers**

- [NFTNDX.IO](https://nftndx.io)

## **NFT Fundraising**

- [Gittron](https://gittron.me/)

## **NFT Collectables**

- [CryptoCorals](https://cryptocorals.co/)
- [CryptoKitties](https://www.cryptokitties.co/)
- [CryptoCrystal](https://cryptocrystal.io/)
- [CryptoPunks](https://www.larvalabs.com/cryptopunks)
- [Hedgie](https://www.hedgie.io/)
- [ECOMI](https://www.ecomi.com/)
- [Kudos](https://gitcoin.co/kudos/) by [Gitcoin](https://gitcoin.co/)
- [MLB Crypto Baseball](https://mlbcryptobaseball.com/)
- [CryptoStrikers](https://www.cryptostrikers.com/)
- [EtherTulips](https://ethertulips.com/)
- [NBA Top Shot](https://nbatopshot.com/)
- [Bullionix](https://bullionix.io/)
- [Aavegotchi](https://aavegotchi.com/)
- [Kanaria](https://kanaria.rmrk.app)

## **NFT Business**

- [Artcryption](https://artcryption.com/)
- [Centrifuge](http://www.centrifuge.io/)
- [ENS Nifty](https://ensnifty.com/)

## **NFT Badges**

- [CHIEVMINT](https://chiev.net/) by the [Raid Guild](https://raidguild.org/)

## **NFT Marketplaces**

- [Async.art](https://async.art/)
- [Cargo](https://cargo.build/)
- [CryptoSlam.io](https://www.cryptoslam.io/)
- [GhostMarket](https://ghostmarket.io/)
- [KodaDot](https://nft.kodadot.xyz)
- [MakersPlace](https://makersplace.com/)
- [Mintable](https://mintable.app/)
- [Nifty Gateway](https://niftygateway.com/#/home)
- [NiftyKit](https://niftykit.com/)
- [OpenSea.io](https://opensea.io/)
- [Portion](http://portion.io/)
- [Rarible](https://rarible.com/)
- [SuperRare](https://superrare.co/)
- [Wax](https://wax.io/)
- [Unifty](https://unifty.io/)
- [Unique.One](https://www.unique.one/)

## **NFT Showcases**
- [Cyber](https://oncyber.io/)
- [Showtime](https://tryshowtime.com/)

## **NFT Philanthropy**

- [CryptoCorals](https://cryptocorals.co/)
- [Project Ark (WWF)](https://project-ark.co)

## **Discovery**

- [NonFungible](https://nonfungible.com/)

## **Generators**

### **NFT Minters**

- [CocoNFT](https://coconft.com/)
- [ethmoji](https://ethmoji.io/)
- [NiftyKit](https://niftykit.com/)
- [KodaDot](https://nft.kodadot.xyz)
- [OpenSea.io](https://opensea.io/)
- [Ownerfy](https://shop.ownerfy.com/)
- [Rarible](https://rarible.com/)
- [Unifty](https://unifty.io/)
- [Valuables by Cent](https://v.cent.co/)
- [Singular](https://singular.rmkr.app)


## **Composables**

- [Mokens](https://mokens.io/)
- [Mintable](https://mintable.app/)
- [CryptoRome](https://www.cryptorome.io/)
- [Kanaria](https://kanaria.rmrk.app) via [RMRK](https://rmrk.app)

## **NFT Wallets**

- [Blockto](https://blocto.portto.io/)
- [Enjin Wallet](https://enjinwallet.io/)
- [Lumi Wallet](https://lumiwallet.com/)
- [Trust Wallet](https://trustwalletapp.com/)
- [DexWallet](https://www.dexwallet.io/)
- [CoinBase Wallet](https://wallet.coinbase.com/)

## **NFT Carbon Footprint**



The NFT Carbon footprint is subject to a lot of debates and depends on the blockchain technology used, especially its consensus mechanism: Proof of Work, Proof of Stake, Proof of Elapsed Time...
One should know that the Proof of Work (PoW) requires an important amount of energy as it is a computational competition. This amount is considerably higher than other consensus mechanisms but it is still hard to have a precise estimation of the consumed energy.

- [Estimate the total CO2 footprint for popular CryptoArt platforms](https://github.com/kylemcdonald/cryptoart-footprint)
- [Carbon.fyi by Offsetra](https://carbon.fyi/)
